{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13940\viewh11760\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Welcome to the repository for my Honours Biology research project! \
\
Here, you\'92ll find:\
\
4 R Markdown files:\
\
- Hmsc_input_data.Rmd: Where I download, clean up and process raw data for input in my model.\
- Hmsc_build_mode.Rmd: Where I build my Hierchical Model of Species Community (HMSC) (Ovaskainen et al., 2017) and explore model outputs\
- Hmsc_null_model.Rmd: Similar to the previous .Rmd, except this is the \'93null\'94 model so I do not include trait data, and I don\'92t explore the model outputs as much as I do for the trait model. \
- Trait_Dissimilarity_Analysis.Rmd: Where I test for a relationship between species\'92 residual associations estimated by HMSC and pairwise trait dissimilarity scores. \
\
I wasn\'92t able to upload all the data used to build the model, but the scripts have links to the sources where you can download the data yourself. To run the scripts, you\'92ll need:\
\
- List of vertebrate fauna in Quebec (LFVQ; .csv file) Database from the Government of Quebec, used to obtain a list of terrestrial, non-volant mammal species present in the province of Quebec (Canada)\
- MAMMALS_TERRESTRIAL_ONLY: Shapefiles from the IUCN Red List\
- COMBINE: Species trait data from the COMBINE database\
- wc2: Climate data from WorldClim (version 2.1)\
- PHYLACINE: Phylogenetic trees (n = 1000) downloaded from PHYLACINE\'92\
\
Throughout the code, I save MANY intermediate files - these got stored in: \
\
- Saved Files FINAL (folder)\
\
I recommend you make a similar folder. \
\
Note: I used OpenAI (ChatGPT) to help me write my code! All code snippets produced by ChatGPT were verified and/or modified by me. \
\
Note: When referring to the HMSC parameters (Gamma, Beta, etc), I use \'93parameter\'94 and \'93coefficient\'94 interchangeably.}